# 1.1 DRAFT
Transport infrastructure encompass a pivotal component in modern society, facilitating means for movement of goods, services and people. Providing these critical links despite variation in conditions, be that large bodies of water, valleys, etc, poses complex challenges to engineers where a multitude of factors such as load requirements, span length, and environmental impact must all be considered. Traditional approaches to bridge design were often time and cost expensive, demanding an iterative design-analysis-modification-evaluation cycle to ensure adherence to engineering principles. However, advances in technology have introduced more **sophisticated optimisation approaches. These methods improve design efficiency by defining variables, constraints, and target functions, and involve cycles of analysis and optimization. This process ensures a rational material distribution, leading to safer and more cost-effective bridge designs.
Given a set of designs that meets defined geometrical and behavioural constraints and objectives, structural optimisation aims to select the best of all possible designs \cite{Eschenauer1997}.
This is particularly helpful for a designer whereby it provides the means to experiment with different structural forms and materials, contributing to more impactful use of resources, but also accounting for aesthetic value. 
Considering its application in bridge design (in 2D space), topology optimization is particularly informative, where It focuses on finding a conceptual layout within a design space that achieves the best structural performance while minimising material use. Through strategic distribution of material, involving deliberate removal and addition of excess material, engineers can design light yet strong structures, all whilst satisfying constraints. In a model where a 2D bridge is represented by beams and nodes (commonly referred to as a truss bridge or frame structure), topology optimization can be used to rearrange the ordering of beams, add more beams, or remove redundant beams to achieve the most efficient design. In this type of structural optimization, the beams and nodes form a discrete design space, and the topology optimisation process will determine the optimal configuration of these elements. Optimising a bridge’s topology in this way has far more potential for cost savings and structural performance than its sizing counterparts, where in addition, it is not bounded by the original shape. (instead of going into this, how about talk about convential means of engineering optimisation, also good piece on truss bridges)
Evolutionary algorithms (EAs) are a widely used and effective approach for optimisation in combinatorial style problems. These family of algorithms follow nature inspired principles, yielding the promise of good approximations despite problem complexity and breadth of solution space. The underlying concept behind these techniques is the idea of “survival of the fittest”, whereby well adapted individuals within a competing population are biased to survive and reproduce, leading to natural selection and improved fitness within the population. Computationally, this follows a selection, variation, and replacement cycle, repeating until a satisfactory solution is found or some other termination criteria \cite{Eiben2015}. Such a system does well to balance exploration and exploitation of the solution space, … Research {cite} {cite} provide early
(introduce the main challenges in this problem) It is often difficult to generate solutions using an EA that are suitable for real-world application in this field without substantial intervention on the part of an expert. This is due in part to the difficulty of defining every consideration an engineer needs to take into account when designing a complex system such as a water 
